[SDK-3290] Add Go API interactive QuickStart (#10085)
auth0/docs: articles/quickstart/backend/golang/interactive.md

---
title: Add authorization to a Go API
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to add authorization to a Go API.
topics:
  - quickstart
  - backend
  - golang
interactive: true
github:
  path: 01-Authorization-RS256
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
files:
  - files/jwt
  - files/main
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 MD025 -->

> # Add Authorization to a Go application.

Reviewer: Style guide: titles should use sentence case unless it's referring to an Auth0 product or proper noun

```suggestion
# Add authorization to a Go application.
```

> Auth0 allows you to quickly add authentication and gain access to user profile information in your application. This guide demonstrates how to integrate Auth0 with any new or existing ASP.NET Owin Web API application using the [go-jwt-middleware](https://github.com/auth0/go-jwt-middleware) package.

Reviewer: > any new or existing ASP.NET Owin Web API application

Should this refer to a Go app as opposed to a ASP.NET Owin app?

Reviewer: > Auth0 allows you to quickly add authentication

Should this be "authentication" or "authorization"? (Title refers to authorization but then we're saying "add authentication").

Author: 👍 copy paste error

Alternatively, you can read [our getting started guide](get-started/auth0-overview/set-up-apis) that helps you set up your first API through the Auth0 dashboard.

Every API in Auth0 is configured using an API Identifier that your application code will use as the Audience to validate the access token.

<%= include('../../../_includes/_api_auth_intro') %>

## Define permissions
<%= include('../_includes/_api_scopes_access_resources') %>

## Install dependencies

Add a `go.mod` file to list all the dependencies to be used.

```text
// go.mod

module 01-Authorization-RS256

go 1.16

require (
	github.com/auth0/go-jwt-middleware/v2 v2.0.0
	github.com/joho/godotenv v1.4.0
)
```

Download dependencies by running the following shell command:

```shell
go mod download
```

## Configure your application

Create a `.env` file within the root of your project directory to store the app configuration, and fill in the
environment variables:

```sh
# The URL of our Auth0 Tenant Domain.
# If you're using a Custom Domain, be sure to set this to that value instead.
AUTH0_DOMAIN='${account.namespace}'

# Our Auth0 API's Identifier.
AUTH0_AUDIENCE='${apiIdentifier}'
```

> ## Create a middleware to validate Access Tokens {{{ data-action=code data-code="middleware/jwt.go" }}}

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
## Create a middleware to validate access tokens {{{ data-action=code data-code="middleware/jwt.go" }}}
```

> Access Token validation will be done in the `EnsureValidToken` middleware function which can be applied to any

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
Access token validation will be done in the `EnsureValidToken` middleware function which can be applied to any
```

endpoints you wish to protect.

If the token is valid, the resources which are served by the endpoint can be released,
otherwise a `401 Authorization` error will be returned.

> Setup the **go-jwt-middleware** middleware to verify Access Tokens from incoming requests.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
Setup the **go-jwt-middleware** middleware to verify access tokens from incoming requests.
```

<%= include('../_includes/_api_jwks_description_no_link') %>

In addition to this, include a mechanism for checking that the token has the sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.

> Create a function `HasScope` to check and ensure the Access Token has the correct scope before returning a successful response.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
Create a function `HasScope` to check and ensure the access token has the correct scope before returning a successful response.
```

> ## Protect API Endpoints {{{ data-action=code data-code="main.go" }}}

Reviewer: Style guide: titles should be sentence case

```suggestion
## Protect API endpoints {{{ data-action=code data-code="main.go" }}}
```

In this example, create an `/api/public` endpoint that does not use the `EnsureToken` middleware as it is accessible to non-authenticated requests.

> Create an `/api/private` endpoint that requires the `EnsureToken` middleware as it is only available to authenticated requests containing an Access Token with no additional scope.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
Create an `/api/private` endpoint that requires the `EnsureToken` middleware as it is only available to authenticated requests containing an access token with no additional scope.
```

> Create an `/api/private-scoped` endpoint that requires the `EnsureToken` middleware and `HasScope` as it is only available for authenticated requests containing an Access Token with the `read:messages` scope granted.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
Create an `/api/private-scoped` endpoint that requires the `EnsureToken` middleware and `HasScope` as it is only available for authenticated requests containing an access token with the `read:messages` scope granted.
```

::: note
Only the `read:messages` scope is checked. You may want to extend the `HasScope` function or make it a standalone middleware that accepts multiple scopes to fit your use case.
:::

<%= include('../_includes/_call_api') %>

::::checkpoint
:::checkpoint-default
Now that you have configured your application, run your application to verify that:
* `GET /api/public` is available for non-authenticated requests.
* `GET /api/private` is available for authenticated requests.
* `GET /api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an access token with the `read:messages` scope.

>   :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::
```

> * `GET /api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an Access Token with the `read:messages` scope.

Reviewer: Style guide (word list): Access Token should be lower case

```suggestion
* `GET /api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an access token with the `read:messages` scope.
```

:::checkpoint-failure
Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:
* make sure the token is added as the `Authorization` header
* does the token have the correct scopes? You can use [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) to verify.

Still having issues? Check out our [documentation](https://auth0.com/docs) or visit our [community page](https://community.auth0.com) to get more help.

> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::
::::
```

---
title: Add authorization to a Go API
description: This tutorial demonstrates how to add authorization to a Go API.
topics:
  - quickstart
  - backend
  - golang
interactive: true
github:
  path: 01-Authorization-RS256
contentType: tutorial
useCase: quickstart
files:
  - files/jwt
  - files/main
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD041 MD025 -->

# Add authorization to a Go application.
This guide demonstrates how to integrate Auth0 with any new or existing Go API application using the [go-jwt-middleware](https://github.com/auth0/go-jwt-middleware) package.

> If you haven't created an API in your Auth0 dashboard yet, you can use the interactive selector to create a new Auth0 API or select an existing API that represents the project you want to integrate with.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you have not created an API in your Auth0 dashboard yet, use the interactive selector to create a new Auth0 API or select an existing API for your project.
```

> Alternatively, you can read [our getting started guide](get-started/auth0-overview/set-up-apis) that helps you set up your first API through the Auth0 dashboard.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To set up your first API through the Auth0 dashboard, review [our getting started guide](get-started/auth0-overview/set-up-apis).
```

> Every API in Auth0 is configured using an API Identifier that your application code will use as the Audience to validate the access token.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Each Auth0 API uses the API Identifier, which your application needs to validate the access token.
```

<%= include('../../../_includes/_api_auth_intro') %>

## Define permissions
<%= include('../_includes/_api_scopes_access_resources') %>

## Install dependencies

> Add a `go.mod` file to list all the dependencies to be used.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Add a `go.mod` file to list all the necessary dependencies.
```

```text
// go.mod

module 01-Authorization-RS256

go 1.16

require (
	github.com/auth0/go-jwt-middleware/v2 v2.0.0
	github.com/joho/godotenv v1.4.0
)
```

Download dependencies by running the following shell command:

```shell
go mod download
```

## Configure your application

Create a `.env` file within the root of your project directory to store the app configuration, and fill in the
environment variables:

```sh
# The URL of our Auth0 Tenant Domain.
# If you're using a Custom Domain, be sure to set this to that value instead.
AUTH0_DOMAIN='${account.namespace}'

# Our Auth0 API's Identifier.
AUTH0_AUDIENCE='${apiIdentifier}'
```

## Create a middleware to validate access tokens {{{ data-action=code data-code="middleware/jwt.go" }}}

> Access token validation will be done in the `EnsureValidToken` middleware function which can be applied to any

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `EnsureValidToken` middleware function validates the access token. You can be apply this function to any endpoints you wish to protect.
```

> endpoints you wish to protect.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> If the token is valid, the resources which are served by the endpoint can be released,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the token is valid, the endpoint releases the resources. If the token is not valid, the API returns a `401 Authorization` error.
```

> If the token is valid, the resources which are served by the endpoint can be released,
> otherwise a `401 Authorization` error will be returned.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion

```

Setup the **go-jwt-middleware** middleware to verify access tokens from incoming requests.

<%= include('../_includes/_api_jwks_description_no_link') %>

> In addition to this, include a mechanism for checking that the token has the sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Include a mechanism to check that the token has sufficient **scope** to access the requested resources.

Create a function `HasScope` to check and ensure the access token has the correct scope before returning a successful response.

## Protect API endpoints {{{ data-action=code data-code="main.go" }}}

In this example, create an `/api/public` endpoint that does not use the `EnsureToken` middleware as it is accessible to non-authenticated requests.

Create an `/api/private` endpoint that requires the `EnsureToken` middleware as it is only available to authenticated requests containing an access token with no additional scope.

Create an `/api/private-scoped` endpoint that requires the `EnsureToken` middleware and `HasScope` as it is only available for authenticated requests containing an access token with the `read:messages` scope granted.

::: note

> Only the `read:messages` scope is checked. You may want to extend the `HasScope` function or make it a standalone middleware that accepts multiple scopes to fit your use case.

Reviewer 3: checked by what?

Reviewer: @adamjmcgrath could you clarify this? I'm assuming it means that only the `read:messages` scope is validated "by the API"

Author: How about?

```suggestion
Only the `read:messages` scope is checked by the `HasScope` function, you may want to extend it or make it a standalone middleware that accepts multiple scopes to fit your use case.
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `HasScope` function is the only check on the `read:messages` scope. You may want to extend the scope or make a standalone middleware to accept multiple scopes.
```

Still feels kind of awkward but if you think one is clearer, feel free to commit and merge.

:::

<%= include('../_includes/_call_api') %>

::::checkpoint
:::checkpoint-default
Now that you have configured your application, run your application to verify that:
* `GET /api/public` is available for non-authenticated requests.
* `GET /api/private` is available for authenticated requests.
* `GET /api/private-scoped` is available for authenticated requests containing an access token with the `read:messages` scope.
:::

:::checkpoint-failure

> Sorry about that. Here's a couple things to double check:
> * make sure the token is added as the `Authorization` header

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If your application did not start successfully:
* Verify you added the token as the `Authorization` header
```

> * does the token have the correct scopes? You can use [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/) to verify.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Ensure the token has the correct scopes. Verify with [jwt.io](https://jwt.io/).
```
